# PandaAiquant
 We have integrated some very good professional quantitative trading strategies for users to choose from（ grid）.
 Quantitative investment techniques include a variety of specific methods, which are widely used in investment product selection, investment timing, stock index futures arbitrage, commodity futures arbitrage, statistical arbitrage and algorithmic trading. Here, statistical arbitrage and algorithmic trading are taken as an example.
1. Statistical Arbitrage [1]
Statistical arbitrage is an arbitrage that uses the historical statistical law of asset prices. It is a kind of risk arbitrage. The risk lies in whether this historical statistical law will continue to exist in the future.
The main idea of ​​statistical arbitrage is to first find out some of the most relevant pairs of investment products, and then find out the long-term equilibrium relationship (cointegration relationship) of each pair of investment varieties, when the price difference of a certain variety (the co-integration equation When the deviation deviates to a certain extent, it starts to open a position, buys a relatively undervalued variety, and sells a relatively overvalued variety. The equivalence difference returns to equilibrium and then profits. Stock index futures hedging is an operational strategy adopted by statistical arbitrage. It uses the index correlation of different countries, regions or industries to simultaneously buy and sell a pair of index futures for trading. Under the condition of economic globalization, the correlation of stock indexes of various countries, regions and industries is getting stronger and stronger, which tends to lead to the systematic risk of stock index. Therefore, it is a low risk and high to hedge the statistical arbitrage between indexes. The way the proceeds are traded.
2. Algorithmic trading.
An algorithmic transaction, also known as an automated transaction, a black box transaction, or a machine transaction, refers to a method of issuing a transaction instruction using a computer program by designing an algorithm. In a transaction, the scope of the program can be determined by the choice of trading time, the price of the transaction, and even the number of assets that need to be finalized.
The main types of algorithmic trading are: (1) Passive algorithmic trading, also known as structured algorithmic trading. In addition to using the historical data to estimate the key parameters of the trading model, the trading algorithm does not actively select the trading opportunity and the number of transactions according to the market conditions, but conducts transactions according to an established trading policy. The core of the strategy is to reduce the price of the slip (the difference between the target price and the actual average transaction price). Passive algorithm trading is the most mature and widely used. For example, the most used transaction weighted average price (VWAP) and time weighted average price (TWAP) in the international market are passive algorithmic transactions. (2) Active algorithmic trading, also known as opportunistic algorithmic trading. Such trading algorithms make real-time decisions based on market conditions to determine whether the transaction, the number of transactions, the price of the transaction, and so on. In addition to efforts to reduce the price of the slip, the active trading algorithm has gradually shifted its focus to price trend forecasts. (3) Integrated algorithmic trading, which is a combination of the first two. The common way of this kind of algorithm is to first split the trading instruction and distribute it to several time periods. How to trade in each time period is judged by the active trading algorithm. The combination of the two can achieve the effect that a single algorithm cannot achieve.
There are three trading strategies for algorithmic trading: one is to reduce transaction costs. Large orders are usually split into several small orders and gradually enter the market. The success of this strategy can be measured by comparing the average purchase price and the volume-weighted average price of the same period. The second is arbitrage. A typical arbitrage strategy usually consists of three or four financial assets. For example, according to the foreign exchange market interest rate parity theory, the price of domestic bonds, the price of bonds denominated in foreign currencies, the exchange rate spot and the exchange rate forward contract price will have a certain correlation, if the market If the price deviates significantly from the price implied by the theory and exceeds its transaction cost, then four transactions can be used to ensure risk-free profit. The term arbitrage of stock index futures can also be completed by algorithmic trading. The third is to make a market. Market making involves placing a limit sell order above the current market price or placing a limit buy order below the current price to make a profit from the bid-ask spread. In addition, there are more complex strategies, such as the “reference point” algorithm used by traders to simulate index returns, and the “sniffer” algorithm used to find the most volatile or unstable market. Any type of pattern recognition or prediction model can be used to initiate algorithmic transactions.
发送反馈
历史记录
